---
layout: post
title:      "What Learning to Code is Teaching Me About Success"
date:       2017-10-27 02:04:49 +0000
permalink:  what_learning_to_code_is_teaching_me_about_success
---


Starting any new endeavor is an exciting experience. Whether it be a new job, moving to a new city, or beginning to learn how to code through the Flatiron School, there is something motivating about having a fresh beginning in your life. When you're riding that wave of initial excitement, you feel invincible, like nothing can slow you down because you're so determined to make the most of the experience. But, as with all things in life, there comes a point when the novelty starts to wear off, and you realize that it's not all rainbows and butterflies. I've sincerely joined every single day of learning to code through The Flatiron School, but it's quickly becoming apparent that this too will require an immense amount of hard work, and I believe I'm becoming better for it. 

One of my favorite parts about learning through the online program at The Flatiron School is the process of working through and completing a particularly difficult lab. For those not familiar with the school, a lab is essentially a coding challenge that relates to whatever concept you are currently learning about in the course. The interesting thing I've discovered after completing tens and tens of these labs is that my favorite ones are the ones that, at the beginning, I feel like I have no clue what I'm going to do or how I could possibly solve the challenge. It's in these situations that I do the only thing I can do; I do what I'm forced to do. I take the challenge one tiny problem at a time starting with the simplest piece of the problem that I already know how to solve. If I've gotten really comfortable with creating an initialize method for an object in Ruby, then that's where I'll start. From there, I use the failed tests in the lab to decipher the next step of the challenge one piece at a time. Sometimes I'll get to the point where I can't figure out the next step in the lab without going back to what I've learned earlier the course. Sometimes I'll even get stuck to the point where I need to ask for help in the online forums to figure out what to do next. But, at the end of the day, I always find a way to solve the problem, and it's incredibly satisfying to finally pass all the tests and submit a lab that's taken upwards of a couple hours to bring to completion. This entire process has provided me with a snapshot of what it means to achieve success. It's never going to be easy, you need to get used to being uncomfortable (or feeling dumb, for lack of a better word), and it's okay and necessary to look for help when you need help.

Learning to code is also teaching me about the true value of time. I've always enjoyed working on personal development in my free time whether it be going to the gym to get in shape, reading a new book, or learning how to play a new song on the guitar. These are all great things to do in your spare time away from work. However, when you enter yourself into a demanding program like what The Flatiron School has to offer, you are cranking up the value of your spare time to a new level. Each minute outside of work is a minute that can be spent to get you closer to your goal of completing the course. It takes significant dedication, discipline, and prior planning to ensure that each moment you have is used as wisely as possible. In order to take on the extra demands on my time while trying to maintain a healthy lifestyle of going to the gym regularly and spending time with my friends, I've had to become more observant of how I spend my free time than ever before. It can be stressful at times, sure, but I have enjoyed the struggle and know I will look back on this period of time with pride for the person it allowed me to become on the other side.
