---
layout: post
title:  "Go Out There and ******* Want It"
date:   2017-09-28 12:54:51 +0000
---


A few winters ago, I sat down on my couch after eating a bowl of my mom's delicious chili and was settling in for a relaxing evening. It was the holidays after all. I flipped over to HBO and on the screen flashed images of the Washington Capitals and Pittsburgh Penguins preparing for that seasons' Winter Classic. Bruce Boudreau, who was coaching the Capitals at the time, had seen enough of his team after an abysmal first period in the midst of what was a significant losing streak for what should have been one of the best teams in the league that year. After minutes of giving his team an NSFW earful for not performing, Boudreau uttered a phrase that I keep top of mind to this day. "You can't just go out there and *think* you want it. You have to go out there and ******* want it!" While it was a comical moment on television, there's no denying there's real value in the words that the disgruntled coach spewed off that night.

So why did I decide I wanted to learn computer programming? There are a lot of reasons. Of course, like everyone else, I saw how glorified Apple became over the past 10 to 15 years, I watched *The Social Network* and envisioned massive success like Mark Zuckerberg, and I had this feeling deep down that coding was the way of the future. I dreamed of building the next big thing and at work I realized that everything I was best at included the use of computers. Eventually, I stumbled upon Codecademy, a free learn-to-code resource, that is a truly phenomenal place to begin developing basic skills related to computer programming. For a time, I was determined to start a successful web design business, and I learned just enough to be dangerous with HTML and CSS to pass as a real web designer. I once made $1500 on a web design project which felt like an incredible success to me even though it took 4 months to finish the project. At some point, life got in the way, and I was somewhat discouraged by the amount of sheer effort it was taking me that didn't seem to have produced a significant pay off in my life yet. So for a few months, I forgot about all the hard work I'd put into learning to code and decied my efforts were better spent elsewhere. But then, on one of those Sunday mornings where you begin to wonder what direction your life is going, I read about the Flatiron School's online web development program and was intrigued. It seemed like the perfect way to reignite my interest in computer programming with the structure to keep me motivated and dedicated to the task at hand. I took the school's bootcamp prep course and realized that I was truly passionate about the consistent challenges and opportunities that go along with computer programming and committed to myself to equip myself with skills that would allow me to one day change the world. I no longer just thought I wanted it, I knew I ******* wanted it. 

The road to changing careers and the trajectory of my life will not be an easy one, but I like it that way. In addition to learning how to code, I believe the program I've enrolled in with The Flatiron School will give me the confidence and skills it takes to take my freelancing business to the next level while becoming extremely employable by all kinds of interesting and exciting companies at the same time. I'm ready to take on this challenge full speed ahead and to experience the things I've been dreaming about trying in the coming months. 


