---
layout: post
title:      "Where in the world have you been? (Sinatra Portfolio Project)"
date:       2018-01-27 08:45:14 -0500
permalink:  where_in_the_world_have_you_been_sinatra_portfolio_project
---


I've alwasy been fascinated by new places. Something about the unknown excites me and draws me to places I've never been and sometimes have barely heard of before. So, when it came time to build my Sinatra Portfolio Project, I knew that I would have to somehow incorporate my passion for travel into the app. What seemed like a simple concept (a travel log of the places you've been to) turned out to push me to be creative and perseverant due to the nuanced challenges of creating a Sinatra application from beginning to end. I learned how to implement my own seed data, used two join tables, and was successfully able to display my love for travel when it was all said and done. In fact, after I finish my Flatiron learning, I think I want to continue to build out this web app into something with much more functionality so I can continue pursuing my passion for travel with a purpose. But for now, I'll spend some time talking about the process of building this application.

1. **The  Setup** - First and foremost, the app required visitor functionality with ability to signup and login. I implemented secure login features through the has_secure_password method and began to layout the shell of my app. I also created country and city models and controllers. I set up my associations so that I could access various information across objects and finally began to build my routes to display the functionality I was hoping to see. 

2. **The Application** - I wanted to make a process that separated concerns as much as possible, so I set up my application so that, upon logging in or signing up, the user was redirected to their visitor profile page immediately. From this page, the user could see the listing of countries and cities they had been to. Of course, upon sign up the user had not been to any countries so their first step would be to add countries. The user has the option to add countries or cities they've been to. I was able to create code that added a city and its country simultaneously to the user's profile if he/she chose to go the route of adding cities. Then upon adding a city and/or country, the user would be redirected to their profile page to see what cities and countries they'd been to. From there, the user has the ability to click on the link to visit page for the cities or countries they've been to. Upon redirecting to one of those links, the user can see the other users that have been to that place and if it was a country page, the cities in that country, or if it was a cities page, the country that city belongs to. Additionally, a user can visit other user's pages to view the cities and countries they've been to.

3. **Future Add-Ons** Overall, I learned a ton in the making of this project. I was forced to develop unique code to fit certain situations I faced (only add a city *and* a country if the user had not been to that country. If they had been to that country, then just add the city (if they hadn't already been to that city/country combo). However, as I was finishing up my time working on the app, I continued to think of ways I could build out this app to be more user friendly and helpful as an actual tool. For example, I would like to incorporate some sort of interface to allow users to communicate with one another. That way if you find a user who has been to a place you want to go, you could ask them for recommendations on what to do there and where to stay. I would also like to allow users to upload pictures of the things they've done and places they've seen. I think it would be really cool to have a google maps interafce that populates with pins on the user's profile page based on where the user adds places they've been. It's fun to have these ideas because it keeps me motivated to keep learning different aspects of computer programming. I am excited to keep building out more functional and detailed apps like this throughout the rest of my Flatiron course.
