---
layout: post
title:      "React - Redux Project: The Grand Finale"
date:       2019-01-21 00:39:52 +0000
permalink:  react_-_redux_project_the_grand_finale
---


For me, more than many, completing the Online Developer program with The Flatiron School is a major achievement. Not because I had to work harder than others or that it was more impressive for me to complete the program. The reason finishing the program is such an achievement for me, however, is because of how easy it could have been for me to say I wasn't going to complete the program. Right when I finished paying tuition from The Flatiron School, as most people would have been doubling down to finish the program as soon as possible and get an offer for their dream job, I had received an enticing job offer that was not related to software development at all. Though it was a tough decision, I decided that taking the job opportunity was the right move for me at the time, despite all the time and money I had invested in The Flatiron School. But because I had already invested so much, and my larger dream was to build a business out of my own web application, I re-committed to myself that I would finish the program no matter how long it took me even during the time-consuming and borderline exhausting phase of starting a brand new job. The best lesson I've learned from this program was that if you keep showing up, you will get to where you want to go.

This project has been a particularly fun one for me to build. I've been interested in personal finance apps for a long time now, and thought I would try my hand at building my own. The goal of my app is to make it as easy as possible for people to understand the long term impacts of their immediate term financial decisions. I aim to do this by building an app that displays exactly how much money you can spend this pay period to stay on track for your longer term financial goals (whether that's retirement, buying your first house, starting your own business, sending your kids to school, etc.).

I had to grind my way through a lot of difficult learning situations with the React / Redux / Rails stack that I've implemented for this app, but I can truly say that I feel like a developer after having gone through the exercise of this project. I've learned how to really look up the solutions to the problems I was facing whether in prior course material or on the open internet. One of the prouder moments I had was last night when all of a sudden the flow between React and Redux really just started to click for me. I was working for hours on building an 'add object' form to no avail, but finally something just clicked. That is what I love about coding in general. If you put in the work and keep your passion for problem solving, you will find solutions to the problems you have. Taking this course through The Flatiron School has been a longer journey than I originally anticipated, but I wouldn't have traded it for anything. I am more than excited to see where this new set of skills takes me in the future, and can't thank the program enough for the confidence it has provided me in more than just the coding walk of life.
